well returning now to our top story the
Israeli military says it has confirmed
that it has killed Maran Isa the deputy
military commander of Hamas let's bring
in Al jazer senior political analyst
Maan Bashar he joins me now in the
studio Maran just how senior was Issa
where did he sit within the whole Hamas
ecosystem well presumably I mean of
course Hamas is is not exactly you know
open it's not a government uh in terms
of its military Wing but it's said that
he's second in command of the military
wing of Hamas now if you ask the
Israelis of course they would like to
make him as if uh he is as high as
possible because then he is more
valuable Target and hence it is a
presumably a greater success for the
Israelis um and in the the Israeli
officials Israeli generals have been
quite adamant in the past five months to
underline the idea that uh they're going
to go after Hamas leaders right yeah and
to the mind of many observers if Israel
can get to the top uh Echelon of Hamas
in Gaza it could start believing that it
is achieving some form of Victory or at
least some form of Revenge right however
what what we know from the history of
this conflict and certainly since
hamas's
establishment uh as a political and
military group in the late
1990s uh sorry in the late 1980s
Israel began assassinating Hamas leaders
in the
1990s think about it is that every time
Israel declared Victory by assassinating
one Hamas leader dozens stepped up to
take his place so the idea of declaring
Victory because one or two or several
Hamas leaders were killed has proven to
be more of a facade more of a deception
for public consumption than it is an
actual achievement because as I said not
only dozens have stepped up to take
their place whenever a leader is
assassinated but we've seen um from the
1990s onward from the 2002 onwards is
that with every assassinated generation
of leaders a new leaders that took on
were even more hardcore sure than the
previous generations so the previous
gener for example I don't know they were
doctors and uh and Architects and
engineers and whatever that happened to
be radical uh resistant uh leaders the
new um the new leaders like for example
senoir right the top military leader in
in Gaza he spent 22 years in Israeli
jail the man is so hardcore and so
hardened right in his heart and mind and
ideology and so on so forth that he
certainly far more app ly competent and
far more radical than all his
predecessors so killing these leaders
might be claimed to be a tactical or
strategic Victory but in the end of the
day Hamas has proven more than capable
of producing more and more leaders am I
right and thinking in this conflict so
far Maan Isa is actually the the senior
most Hamas figure who has been killed
well between arui and Lebanon yeah right
who again in Gaza yes uh but of course
as we all know uh that um Hamas you know
is run more as a as an
organization that's quite hierarchical
and and has quite the command uh within
the hierarchy that trickles down so who
whatever the hierarchy is doesn't matter
what the geography is and in fact some
of their most hardcore leaders are in
fact in that section right among the
three four sections is the one that is
based in the
prisons very interesting and one of the
three four main commanders are actually
in prisons because they have a prison
wing for Hamas Maran just in terms of
assessing what Israel's thinking right
now as you say they've said very
publicly that they plan to destroy the
whole of Hamas for many of them that
means destroying certainly the
leadership of Hamas especially the
military
leadership what is your assessment of
how that's going so far I understand
that certainly a majority I believe of
Battalion commanders have been taken out
out so in terms of of the way that
Israel is approaching this in terms of
their measures of success how are they
doing look I mean there's no doubt that
after five months of bombings much of it
indiscriminate that some of the
collateral damage uh happened to be
Hamas leaders right and clearly a lot of
them were killed there's no doubt about
that I'm not sure if it's 2/3 1/3 3/4s
all of that is just asate but I know two
things to be a fact that we've known
thus far the past five months and that's
what really it's troubling for the
Israelis one is that no Hamas Fighters
have
surrendered voluntarily to the Israelis
the Israelis picked up all kinds of
people called that called them Hamas but
there are no Hamas Fighters that
surrenders two Hamas leaders none of
them have capitulated to Israel in Gaza
and these are the two things that are
most troubling for the Israelis and in
fact when you listen to their experts
they keep going over it again and again
how could these people meaning the ERS
and the militants be so hardcore that
not one has recap has capitulated not
one has
surrendered very interesting Dynamic
certainly going forward now too M Bashar
thank you so much for joining us
again